Delete full monolithic solver & re-organize problems using lambdas (#31785)
idaholab/moose: modules/subchannel/doc/content/modules/subchannel/general/subchannel_theory.md

#### Implicit segregated

In this case, the governing mass, axial momentum and crossflow momentum, equations are recast in matrix form and the flow variables are calculated by solving the corresponding system. This means that variables are retrieved concurrently for the whole block. Otherwise, the solution algorithm is the same as in the default explicit method.

#### Implicit

In this case, the governing mass, axial momentum and crossflow momentum  conservation equations are recast in matrix form and combined into a single system. The system of all the subchannel equations looks like this:

\begin{equation}

> \begin{bmatrix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\begin{bmatrix}
```

please check the website rendering when changing doco
https://mooseframework.inl.gov/docs/PRs/31785/site/modules/subchannel/general/subchannel_theory.html

#### 1. Fast scale estimates

From the axial- and cross-momentum rows, the code forms quick, diagonally preconditioned estimates:
\begin{equation}
\begin{aligned}
\hat{\mathbf m} &= M_{pm}\,\mathbf m, \\
\hat{\mathbf p} &= \frac{\hat{\mathbf m}}{\operatorname{diag}(M_{pp}) + \varepsilon_p\mathbf 1},\\
\hat{\mathbf W} &= \frac{M_{wp}\,\hat{\mathbf p} - \mathbf b_2}{\operatorname{diag}(M_{ww}) + \varepsilon_W\mathbf 1},
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}
with small safeguards $\varepsilon_p,\varepsilon_W\sim 10^{-10}$ to avoid division by zero. Using $\hat{\mathbf W}$, the per-channel crossflow sum $\sum_{j} w_{ij}$ is assembled into a vector $\mathrm{sumw_{ij}}_{\mathrm{loc}}$.

#### 2. Robust scale measurements

Two guarded scalars are computed:

\begin{equation}
\begin{aligned}
m_{\min} &= \max\big(\min |\mathbf m|,\; 10^{-12}\big),\\
S_{\max} &= \max\Big(\max |\mathrm{sumw_{ijloc}}|,\; 10^{-10}\Big)
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}

Additionally, a mean inter-iteration change for crossflow is formed
\begin{equation}

> r_{\mathrm{base}} = \operatorname{mean}\big(\big|\mathbf W^{(k)} - \mathbf W^{(k-1)}\big|\big),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
r_{\mathrm{base}} = \operatorname{mean}\big(\big|\mathbf W^{(k)}| - |\mathbf W^{(k-1)}\big|\big),
```
that s what we have in the code

\end{equation}
leading to a relaxation factor
\begin{equation}

> r = \frac{r_{\mathrm{base}}}{\max(S_{\max}, \varepsilon)} + 0.5,\qquad \varepsilon\sim10^{-12}.

Reviewer: epsilon is 1e-12 in the code

Reviewer: add a sentence to explain the rationale here. We have 0.5 relaxation factor + ?

\begin{aligned}
m_{\min} &= \max\big(\min |\mathbf m|,\; 10^{-10}\big),\\
S_{\max} &= \max\Big(\max |\mathrm{sumw_{ijloc}}|,\; 10^{-10}\Big)
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}

Additionally, a mean inter-iteration change for crossflow is formed
\begin{equation}
r_{\mathrm{base}} = \operatorname{mean}\big(\big|\mathbf W^{(k)}| - |\mathbf W^{(k-1)}\big|\big),
\end{equation}
leading to a relaxation factor
\begin{equation}
r = \frac{r_{\mathrm{base}}}{\max(S_{\max}, \varepsilon)} + 0.5,\qquad \varepsilon\sim10^{-10}.
\end{equation}
The +0.5 offset biases toward mild under-relaxation.

#### 3. Crossflow resistance inflation

A cross-coupling resistance is estimated and smoothed:
\begin{equation}
\begin{aligned}
\tilde K   &= \frac{S_{\max}}{m_{\min}}, &
K^\star &= 0.9\,\tilde K + 0.1\,K_{\text{old}}, &
K       &= r\,K^\star.
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}
After smoothing, the provisional crossflow resistance $K$ is mapped through a piecewise lower-bound function that enforces minimum safe damping levels in specific ranges.

\begin{equation}
K \rightarrow
\begin{cases}
K , & K >= 10, \\
1.0, & 1 \leq K < 10, \\
0.5, & 0.01 \leq K < 0.1, \\
\frac{1}{3}, & 10^{-3} \leq K < 10^{-2}, \\

> K,            & K < 10^{-3}.

Reviewer: you are missing this case
    if (_added_K < 1e-2 && _added_K >= 1e-3)
      _added_K = 0.1;

\end{cases}
\end{equation}

> This mapping acts as a {bounded snap-up} rule for the crossflow resistance $K$:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mapping acts as a {snap-up} rule for the crossflow resistance $K$ over the range $[10^{-3}, 10]$:
```

it is not bounded because large Ks are not changed

it raises $K$ out of weak-damping intervals but leaves very small and very large
values unchanged. The purpose is to maintain numerical stability and adequate
diagonal dominance in the cross-momentum equations without introducing full quantization or "bucketing".

Finally, $K$ is added to the diagonal of the cross-momentum block,
\begin{equation}
M_{ww} \;\leftarrow\; M_{ww} + K\,I,
\end{equation}

> thereby increasing diagonal dominance and improving conditioning for the crossflow equations.

Reviewer: yes and I ve done tests back when we merged SCM and it's not zero across the validation basis. As big as 100 in some cases

#### 4. Per-field under-relaxation

Classical linear under-relaxation is applied separately to each field $f\in\{\mathbf m,\mathbf p,\mathbf W\}$ using factors
\begin{equation}
\alpha_m=1.0,\qquad \alpha_p=1.0,\qquad \alpha_W=0.1.
\end{equation}
For each field, with the corresponding diagonal $D_f=\operatorname{diag}(M_{ff})$, the system is modified as
\begin{equation}
\begin{aligned}
M_{ff} &\leftarrow \frac{1}{\alpha_f} M_{ff}, \\
\mathbf b_f &\leftarrow \mathbf b_f + (1-\alpha_f)\,D_f\,\mathbf x^{\text{old}}_f.
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}

> This standard construction ensures that solving the modified linear system yields the *under-relaxed* update for field $f$. In practice, only $\mathbf W$ is strongly damped, while $\mathbf m$ and $\mathbf p$ proceed without additional damping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard construction ensures that solving the modified linear system yields the *under-relaxed* update for field $f$. In practice, only $\mathbf W$ is strongly damped, while $\mathbf m$ and $\mathbf p$ can be solved without additional damping.
```

it raises $K$ out of weak-damping intervals but leaves very small and very large
values unchanged. The purpose is to maintain numerical stability and adequate
diagonal dominance in the cross-momentum equations without introducing full quantization or "bucketing".

Finally, $K$ is added to the diagonal of the cross-momentum block,
\begin{equation}
M_{ww} \;\leftarrow\; M_{ww} + K\,I,
\end{equation}
thereby increasing diagonal dominance and improving conditioning for the crossflow equations. Note that this treatment does influence the cross-flow distribution solution.

#### 4. Per-field under-relaxation

Classical linear under-relaxation is applied automatically and separately to each field $f\in\{\mathbf m,\mathbf p,\mathbf W\}$ using factors
\begin{equation}
\alpha_m=1.0,\qquad \alpha_p=1.0,\qquad \alpha_W=0.1.
\end{equation}
For each field, with the corresponding diagonal $D_f=\operatorname{diag}(M_{ff})$, the system is modified as
\begin{equation}
\begin{aligned}
M_{ff} &\leftarrow \frac{1}{\alpha_f} M_{ff}, \\
\mathbf b_f &\leftarrow \mathbf b_f + (1-\alpha_f)\,D_f\,\mathbf x^{\text{old}}_f.
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}

> This standard construction ensures that solving the modified linear system yields the *under-relaxed* update for field $f$. In practice, only $\mathbf W$ is strongly damped, while $\mathbf m$ and $\mathbf p$ can be solved without additional damping. This relaxation happens inside the temperature loop.

Reviewer: W is damped inside the temperatrue loop?
